Add Extension Spec for Builder (#116)
buildpacks/rfcs: text/0000-builder-spec.md

# Meta
[meta]: #meta
- Name: Builder Spec
- Start Date: 2020-09-11
- Author(s): [@dfreilich](https://github.com/dfreilich)
- RFC Pull Request: (leave blank)
- CNB Pull Request: (leave blank)
- CNB Issue: (leave blank)
- Supersedes: N/A

# Summary
[summary]: #summary
A Builder is a critical tool in the CNB ecosystem, and yet, is largely [unspecified][spec-issue-builder]. This RFC proposes that we should add a rigorous description of builders in the [distribution specification][distribution-spec], and clarify the usage/existence of builders in the [platform specification][platform-spec]

# Definitions
[definitions]: #definitions

> * **[Builder][builder-docs]** &rarr; A **builder** is an image that bundles all the bits and information on how to build your apps, such as buildpacks and build-time image, as well as executes the buildpacks against your app source code.

Author: 👍 

I grabbed that description from the docs, so I'll take that as feedback for docs.

* **[Buildpack][buildpacks-docs]** &rarr; A **buildpack** is a unit of work that inspects your app source code and formulates a plan to build and run your application.
* **[Platform][platform-docs]** &rarr; A **platform** uses a lifecycle, buildpacks (packaged in a builder), and application source code to produce an OCI image.
* **[Stack][stack-docs]** &rarr; A stack provides the buildpack lifecycle with build-time and run-time environments in the form of images.

# Motivation
[motivation]: #motivation
Builders are a vital part of the CNB ecosystem as it currently stands; they are used to distribute the lifecycle and buildpacks to every platform, including:
* pack
* Tekton
* pack-orb

> * kpack

Author: Interesting! I hadn't realized that change.

etc.

However, at this point, builders are underspecified, and a rigorous technical specification would fill a needed hole in the current documentation.

# What it is
[what-it-is]: #what-it-is

> A Builder consists of four items:

Reviewer: I think the stack information including a reference to the `run-image` and potentially `run-image-mirrors` should be called out separately here.

Author: done in 41b9a4ae471e3490de686f66e81fa8bbd999a262

  samples/ruby-bundler          0.0.1          https://github.com/buildpacks/samples/tree/main/buildpacks/ruby-bundler
  samples/hello-universe        0.0.1          https://github.com/buildpacks/samples/tree/main/buildpacks/hello-universe
  samples/hello-world           0.0.1          https://github.com/buildpacks/samples/tree/main/buildpacks/hello-world
  samples/hello-moon            0.0.1          https://github.com/buildpacks/samples/tree/main/buildpacks/hello-moon

Detection Order:
 ├ Group #1:
 │  └ samples/java-maven@0.0.1
 ├ Group #2:
 │  └ samples/kotlin-gradle@0.0.1
 ├ Group #3:
 │  └ samples/ruby-bundler@0.0.1
 └ Group #4:
    └ samples/hello-universe@0.0.1
       └ Group #1:
          ├ samples/hello-world@0.0.1
          └ samples/hello-moon@0.0.1
```

# How it Works
[how-it-works]: #how-it-works
## Structure of Builders
### Files/Directories
A builder is composed of at least the following directories/files:
```
- /cnb/buildpacks/...<buildpack ID>/<buildpack version>/
- /cnb/lifecycle/<lifecycle binaries>
- /cnb/order.toml
- /cnb/stack.toml
- /layers

> - /platform/env/<env-files>

Reviewer: I don't think we should expect and certainly not require environment variable files to be baked into the builder image. These are supplied by the user for a specific build and are typically mounted in (although `pack` does bake these into an ephemeral builder image).

- /workspace
```

### Env Vars/Labels
A builder's environment is the build-time environment of the stack, and as such, requires all of the [build image specifications][build-image-specs], including:
* The image config's User field is set to a non-root user with a writable home directory.
* The image config's Env field has the environment variable CNB_STACK_ID set to the stack ID.
* The image config's Env field has the environment variable CNB_USER_ID set to the user †UID/‡SID of the user specified in the User field.
* The image config's Env field has the environment variable CNB_GROUP_ID set to the primary group †GID/‡SID of the user specified in the User field.
* The image config's Label field has the label io.buildpacks.stack.id set to the stack ID. (string)

> * The image config's Label field has the label io.buildpacks.stack.mixins set to a JSON array containing mixin names for each mixin applied to the image.

Reviewer: Instead of enumerating the requirements of a `build-image` maybe it is best to simply leave the link to the spec, so that this section doesn't fall out of date.

Author: 41b9a4ae471e3490de686f66e81fa8bbd999a262

> Additionally, a builder requires:

Reviewer: We should include `io.buildpacks.lifecycle.version` and `io.buildpacks.lifecycle.apis` labels from https://github.com/buildpacks/rfcs/blob/main/text/0049-multi-api-lifecycle-descriptor.md#lifecycle-labels.

Author: 41b9a4ae471e3490de686f66e81fa8bbd999a262

> * The image config's WorkingDir should be set

Author: Should this be a requirement?

Reviewer: In the future the working dir shouldn't matter https://github.com/buildpacks/spec/pull/128.

Author: Super interesting! That's only for platform api 0.5, though, so I assume it should be kept in at the moment?

              "version": "<inner bulidpacks version>"
            }
          ]
        }
      ],
      "layerDiffID": "sha256:test.nested.sha256",
	  "homepage": "http://geocities.com/top-bp"
    }
  },
  "<inner buildpack>": {
    "<inner buildpacks version>": {
      "api": "<buildpack API>",
      "stacks": [
        {
          "id": "<stack ID buildpack supports>",
          "mixins": ["<list of mixins required>"]
        }
      ],
      "layerDiffID": "sha256:test.bp.one.sha256",
	  "homepage": "http://geocities.com/cool-bp"
    }
  }
}
```

## Spec Additions
### [Buildpack specification][buildpacks-spec]
Builders don't seem immediately relevant to the buildpack specification; as such, I wouldn't add mention of builders here. 

### [Platform specification][platform-spec]
We can add a note, clarifying that in platforms that use builders, the Stack's build image is the core of the builder. 

### [Distribution specification][distribution-spec]
We should have a rigorous definition of the builder here, with a description of all the files and metadata necessary and allowed. 

# Drawbacks
[drawbacks]: #drawbacks
N/A

# Alternatives
[alternatives]: #alternatives

> Specifying the builder is something that, to my mind, should definitely done; the question is, how. We could have an entirely separate `extension spec`, defining builders and how they should be used. 

Reviewer: I think a separate extension spec is appropriate, given that a platform could choose not to use builders and instead work with stacks, lifecycles, and buildpacks directly.

Author: Incorporated

 > Given that one of the key uses of builders is in distributing buildpacks, I thought it should at least be discussed in some depth in the [distribution spec][distribution-spec], and given that the buildpackage makeup is described there, I thought it appropriate to just describe it fully in the distribution spec. 

# Prior Art
[prior-art]: #prior-art
Some similar PRs that led to the development of specifications are:
* [Distribution Specification][distrib-spec-rfc]
* [Service Binding Specification][service-binding-rfc]

> # Unresolved Questions

Reviewer 2: Should we also define the schema of the `builder.toml`?

Author: It could make sense to do so - but on the other hand, `builder.toml` is used in pack, but should it be standardized for other platforms as well? It feels like more of an implementation detail of how pack creates builders.

Author: Seemed like consensus in Working Group was not to define it here.

Detection Order:
 ├ Group #1:
 │  └ samples/java-maven@0.0.1
 ├ Group #2:
 │  └ samples/kotlin-gradle@0.0.1
 ├ Group #3:
 │  └ samples/ruby-bundler@0.0.1
 └ Group #4:
    └ samples/hello-universe@0.0.1
       └ Group #1:
          ├ samples/hello-world@0.0.1
          └ samples/hello-moon@0.0.1
```

# How it Works
[how-it-works]: #how-it-works
## Structure of Builders
### Files/Directories
A builder is composed of at least the following directories/files:
```
- /cnb/buildpacks/...<buildpack ID>/<buildpack version>/
- /cnb/lifecycle/<lifecycle binaries>
- /cnb/order.toml
- /cnb/stack.toml
```

### Env Vars/Labels
A builder's environment is the build-time environment of the stack, and as such, requires all of the [build image specifications][build-image-specs].

Additionally, a builder requires:
* The image config's WorkingDir should be set
* The image config's Env field has the environment variable `CNB_APP_DIR` set to the application directory of the build environment
* The image config's Env field has the environment variable `CNB_LAYERS_DIR` set
* The image config's Env field has the environment variable `CNB_PLATFORM_DIR` set

> * The image config's Env field has the environment variable `CNB_PLATFORM_DIR` set

Reviewer: We should specify that the directories these env vars point to should exist in the builder image.

Author: Fixed in 94207149e7534c608c8b926652ba12cdccff66b8

* The image config's Env field has the environment variable `SERVICE_BINDING_ROOT` set to a directory in the builder, if any services are bound
* The image config's Labels field has the label io.buildpacks.builder.api, set to a string (defaulting to `0.1`)
* The image config's Labels field has the label io.buildpacks.builder.metadata, set to a JSON object representing [Builder Metadata](#metadata)
* The image config's Labels field has the label io.buildpacks.buildpack.order, set to a JSON object representing an [Order](#order)
* The image config's Labels field has the label io.buildpacks.buildpack.layers, set to a JSON object representing the [buildpack layers](#layers)

If the builder contains an optional [lifecycle descriptor file][lifecycle-descriptor-rfc], it also requires:
* The image config's Labels field has the label io.buildpacks.lifecycle.version, set to the lifecycle version

> * The image config's Labels field has the label io.buildpacks.lifecycle.apis, set to a JSON object representing the [lifecycle apis](#lifecycle-apis)

Reviewer 3: I'm trying to comprehend how a platform would be able to use a lifecycle without know it's API information given that this wording makes all that information optional. Was that discussed somewhere?

Author: Good catch. I added these requirements in, after @ekcasey reviewed it [here](https://github.com/buildpacks/rfcs/pull/116#discussion_r489611119). It sounds from the [lifecycle-descriptor rfc](https://github.com/buildpacks/rfcs/blob/main/text/0049-multi-api-lifecycle-descriptor.md#backwards-compatibility) that the the metadata for older versions was contained in the `io.buildpacks.builder.metadata` label:
> Currently lifecycle API and verison information is contained in the io.buildpacks.builder.metadata label. 

But, I removed that from the `io.buildpacks.builder.metadata` label after @ekcasey noted that we shouldn't have the old style in the new requirements. I'll update that to reflect that we assume those labels will be present.

#### Order
The `io.buildpacks.buildpack.order` data should look like:
```json
[
	{
	  "group":
		[
		  {
			"id": "<buildpack id>",
			"version": "<buildpack version>",
			"optional": "<bool>"
		  }
		]
	}
]
```

#### Metadata
The `io.buildpacks.builder.metadata` data should look like:
```json
{
  "description": "<Some description>",
  "stack": {
    "runImage": {
      "image": "<some/run-image>",
      "mirrors": [
        "<gcr.io/some/default>"
      ]
    }
  },
  "buildpacks": [
    {
      "id": "<buildpack id>",
	  "version": "<buildpack version>",
	  "homepage": "http://geocities.com/top-bp"
	}
  ],
  "createdBy": {
    "name": "<creator of builder>", 

>     "version": "<builder version>"

Reviewer 3: Isn't this really more like "version of tool used to create builder"?

* [distribution specification][distribution-spec]
* [platform specification][platform-spec]

# Definitions
[definitions]: #definitions
* **[Builder][builder-docs]** &rarr; A **builder** is an image that bundles all the bits and information on how to build your apps, such as buildpacks, an implementation of the lifecycle, and build-time environment that platforms may use when executing the lifecycle.
* **[Buildpack][buildpacks-docs]** &rarr; A **buildpack** is a unit of work that inspects your app source code and formulates a plan to build and run your application.
* **[Platform][platform-docs]** &rarr; A **platform** uses a lifecycle, buildpacks (packaged in a builder), and application source code to produce an OCI image.
* **[Stack][stack-docs]** &rarr; A stack provides the buildpack lifecycle with build-time and run-time environments in the form of images.
* **[Lifecycle][lifecycle-docs]** &rarr; The lifecycle orchestrates buildpack execution, then assembles the resulting artifacts into a final app image.

> * **Extension Spec** &rarr; An extension spec defines soemthing that is an optional add-on for Cloud Native Buildpacks systems, but not required to be considered `spec` compliant.

Author: Fixed in 94207149e7534c608c8b926652ba12cdccff66b8

  samples/kotlin-gradle         0.0.1          https://github.com/buildpacks/samples/tree/main/buildpacks/kotlin-gradle
  samples/ruby-bundler          0.0.1          https://github.com/buildpacks/samples/tree/main/buildpacks/ruby-bundler
  samples/hello-universe        0.0.1          https://github.com/buildpacks/samples/tree/main/buildpacks/hello-universe
  samples/hello-world           0.0.1          https://github.com/buildpacks/samples/tree/main/buildpacks/hello-world
  samples/hello-moon            0.0.1          https://github.com/buildpacks/samples/tree/main/buildpacks/hello-moon

Detection Order:
 ├ Group #1:
 │  └ samples/java-maven@0.0.1
 ├ Group #2:
 │  └ samples/kotlin-gradle@0.0.1
 ├ Group #3:
 │  └ samples/ruby-bundler@0.0.1
 └ Group #4:
    └ samples/hello-universe@0.0.1
       └ Group #1:
          ├ samples/hello-world@0.0.1
          └ samples/hello-moon@0.0.1
```

# How it Works
[how-it-works]: #how-it-works
## Structure of Builders
### Files/Directories
A builder is composed of at least the following directories/files:
```
- /cnb/buildpacks/...<buildpack ID>/<buildpack version>/
- /cnb/lifecycle/<lifecycle binaries>

> - /cnb/order.toml

Reviewer 4: Does this duplicate information in the `io.buildpacks.buildpack.order` label?

Reviewer: The information needs exist in both a label and a file so it can be read by a platform (from the label) and by the lifecycle (from the file).

> - /cnb/stack.toml

Reviewer 4: Does it make sense to call out what's in these files? I believe this information is also captured in `io.buildpacks.builder.metadata`. It's weird that it's in both places.

Author: Those are already defined in the [Platform documentation](https://github.com/buildpacks/spec/blob/main/platform.md), so I don't think there's a major need

# Meta
[meta]: #meta
- Name: Builder Spec
- Start Date: 2020-09-11
- Author(s): [@dfreilich](https://github.com/dfreilich)
- RFC Pull Request: (leave blank)
- CNB Pull Request: (leave blank)
- CNB Issue: (leave blank)
- Supersedes: N/A

# Summary
[summary]: #summary
A Builder is a critical tool in the CNB ecosystem, and yet, is largely [unspecified][spec-issue-builder]. This RFC proposes that we should add a rigorous versioned specification of builders as an extension to the core specification, and clarify the existence of builders in the:

> * [distribution specification][distribution-spec]

Author: I think that since we use builders in a lot of contexts, to distribute things, it would be weird for us not to at least acknowledge their existence in the distribution spec, even if we don't require them. Similar to the addition in the platform spec that builders are fully functioning stack build image, say that builders are similar artifacts to buildpackages, and MAY be used by some platforms.

* [platform specification][platform-spec]

# Definitions
[definitions]: #definitions
* **[Builder][builder-docs]** &rarr; A **builder** is an image that bundles all the bits and information on how to build your apps, such as buildpacks, an implementation of the lifecycle, and build-time environment that platforms may use when executing the lifecycle.
* **[Buildpack][buildpacks-docs]** &rarr; A **buildpack** is a unit of work that inspects your app source code and formulates a plan to build and run your application.
* **[Platform][platform-docs]** &rarr; A **platform** uses a lifecycle, buildpacks (packaged in a builder), and application source code to produce an OCI image.
* **[Stack][stack-docs]** &rarr; A stack provides the buildpack lifecycle with build-time and run-time environments in the form of images.
* **[Lifecycle][lifecycle-docs]** &rarr; The lifecycle orchestrates buildpack execution, then assembles the resulting artifacts into a final app image.
* **Extension Spec** &rarr; An extension spec defines soemthing that is an optional add-on for Cloud Native Buildpacks systems, but not required to be considered `spec` compliant.

# Motivation
[motivation]: #motivation

> Builders are a vital part of the CNB ecosystem as it currently stands; they are used to distribute the lifecycle and buildpacks to every platform, including:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Builders are a vital part of the CNB ecosystem as it currently stands; they are used to distribute the lifecycle and buildpacks to many platforms, including:
```

Author: Done in 211b74c7c7443b353cfa111cc15c92abb60369a9

* pack
* Tekton
* pack-orb
* kpack
etc.

> However, at this point, builders are underspecified, and a rigorous technical specification would fill a needed hole in the current documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, at this point, builders are unspecified, and a rigorous technical specification would guarantee a stable API for platforms to develop against.
```
This is a bit of a nitpick. We could easily _document_ builders as `pack` defines them but specifying them goes a step further.

Author: Done in 211b74c7c7443b353cfa111cc15c92abb60369a9

# What it is
[what-it-is]: #what-it-is
A Builder consists of four items:
* Buildpacks &rarr; A list of buildpack references, and an ordering of buildpacks
* Lifecycle &rarr; A version of a lifecycle implementation

> * Stack’s build image &rarr; An environment used at build-time (the metadata contains a reference to the run image required, and potentially a list of run-image mirrors)

Reviewer: The run-image and mirror references don't actually exist on the stack `build-image`. They are added in a label and a `stack.toml` file only when a builder is created.

Author: I had meant to say that it was on the metadata of a builder, and not a stack, but I'll make that more clear.

Author: Done in 211b74c7c7443b353cfa111cc15c92abb60369a9

  samples/ruby-bundler          0.0.1          https://github.com/buildpacks/samples/tree/main/buildpacks/ruby-bundler
  samples/hello-universe        0.0.1          https://github.com/buildpacks/samples/tree/main/buildpacks/hello-universe
  samples/hello-world           0.0.1          https://github.com/buildpacks/samples/tree/main/buildpacks/hello-world
  samples/hello-moon            0.0.1          https://github.com/buildpacks/samples/tree/main/buildpacks/hello-moon

Detection Order:
 ├ Group #1:
 │  └ samples/java-maven@0.0.1
 ├ Group #2:
 │  └ samples/kotlin-gradle@0.0.1
 ├ Group #3:
 │  └ samples/ruby-bundler@0.0.1
 └ Group #4:
    └ samples/hello-universe@0.0.1
       └ Group #1:
          ├ samples/hello-world@0.0.1
          └ samples/hello-moon@0.0.1
```

# How it Works
[how-it-works]: #how-it-works
## Structure of Builders
### Files/Directories
A builder is composed of at least the following directories/files:
```
- /cnb/buildpacks/...<buildpack ID>/<buildpack version>/
- /cnb/lifecycle/<lifecycle binaries>
- /cnb/order.toml
- /cnb/stack.toml
- /layers

> - /workspace

Reviewer: After some thought I think we should add `/platform` in here to reduce possible permissions issue reading volumes mounted volumes under platform.

We may also want to build in `/platform/bindings` and specify that `$SERVICE_BINDING_ROOT` should be set to `/platform/bindings` in the builder image. This is a convenience for any platform that wants to support bindings.

Author: I thought the bindings spec was deprecated in favor of the K8s spec?

Author: If the k8s spec just requires that $SERVICE_BINDING_ROOT be set, why would we restrict it to `platform/bindings`?

Author: To clarify, I have added `/platform` in, and I'm happy to build in `/platform/bindings` as well, I just don't know enough about the current state of service bindings, and how it's used in the CNB ecosystem. Do current platforms set `$SERVICE+BINDING_ROOT`?

Author: Looking at the [k8s spec](https://k8s-service-bindings.github.io/spec/#application-projection), I see that it demands that `$SERVICE_BINDING_ROOT` be set. I think, though, that given this comment (https://github.com/buildpacks/rfcs/pull/116#discussion_r493777489), we probably shouldn't require it be set to a specific directory. What do you think?

> - /workspace

Reviewer: I am wondering...
Do we actually want to specify these literal file paths or if we want to specify things like, "there is an application directory and `CNB_APP_DIR` is set to the app dir in the builder image environment."

The latter would give us more flexibility to for example change `/layers` to `/build/layers` or something like that in the future. Not hard coding the default paths in the building spec but instead using the env vars keeps our options open.

Author: I think that having the literal file paths could be helpful to concretize what a builder looks like, but I'm also happy to change it, if consensus is against that.

Author: Should we do this for all file paths, or just for `CNB_APP_DIR`?

```

In addition, builders MAY build in environment variables by defining env-files in
```
- /platform/env/<env-files>

> ```

Reviewer: I don't think we should be encouraging folks to distribute `/platform/env/<env-files>` on a builder image. Although pack creates an ephemeral builder with these files, it would be natural for a platform like `tekton` to mount a volume over `/platform/env` to provide env vars to a buildpack. Any env files baked into a distributable builder would be present in some platforms and not in others, leading to weird behavior.

Author: But if some builders are doing it, is it better to leave it as an undocumented easter-egg feature?

Reviewer 4: Do we have any examples of non-ephemeral builders that are distributing env vars this way?

Reviewer: TBH I don't consider packs ephemeral builder to be builders formally and therefore I wouldn't say that "some builders are doing it".

### Env Vars/Labels
A builder's environment is the build-time environment of the stack, and as such, requires all of the [build image specifications][build-image-specs].

Additionally, a builder requires:
* The image config's WorkingDir should be set

> * The image config's Label field has the label io.buildpacks.buildpack.order, set to a JSON object representing an [Order](#order)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The image config's Labels field has the label io.buildpacks.buildpack.order, set to a JSON object representing an [Order](#order)
```

Author: I won't spam you with too many more emails, but did all of these suggestions in 211b74c7c7443b353cfa111cc15c92abb60369a9

> * The image config's Label field has the label io.buildpacks.builder.metadata, set to a JSON object representing [Builder Metadata](#metadata)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The image config's Labels field has the label io.buildpacks.builder.metadata, set to a JSON object representing [Builder Metadata](#metadata)
```

> * The image config's Label field has the label io.buildpacks.buildpack.layers, set to a JSON object representing the [layers](#layers)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The image config's Labels field has the label io.buildpacks.buildpack.layers, set to a JSON object representing the [buildpack layers](#layers)
```

If the builder contains an optional [lifecycle descriptor file][lifecycle-descriptor-rfc], it also requires:

> * The image config's Label field has the label io.buildpacks.lifecycle.version, set to the lifecycle version

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The image config's Labels field has the label io.buildpacks.lifecycle.version, set to the lifecycle version
```

> * The image config's Label field has the label io.buildpacks.lifecycle.apis, set to a JSON object representing the [lifecycle apis](#lifecycle-apis)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The image config's Labels field has the label io.buildpacks.lifecycle.apis, set to a JSON object representing the [lifecycle apis](#lifecycle-apis)
```

#### Order
The `io.buildpacks.buildpack.order` data should look like:
```json
[
	{
	  "group":
		[
		  {
			"id": "<buildpack id>",
			"version": "<buildpack version>",
			"optional": "<bool>"
		  }
		]
	}
]
```

#### Metadata
The `io.buildpacks.builder.metadata` data should look like:
```json
{
  "description": "<Some description>",

>   "api": "<some builder API version | default 0.1 >",

Reviewer: Given this is new in this RFC maybe we should move this into a separate `io.buildpacks.builder.api` label, now that we are preferring more specific labels?

  "stack": {
    "runImage": {
      "image": "<some/run-image>",
      "mirrors": [
        "<gcr.io/some/default>"
      ]
    }
  },
  "buildpacks": [
    {
      "id": "<buildpack id>",
	  "version": "<buildpack version>",
	  "homepage": "http://geocities.com/top-bp"
	}

>   ],

Reviewer: Do we need this information in this label if it is already in `io.buildpacks.buildpack.layers`?

  "lifecycle": {
    "version": "<version of lifecycle in builder>",
    "apis":  {
        "buildpack": {
          "deprecated": ["0.1"],
          "supported": ["1.2", "1.3"]},
        "platform": {
          "deprecated": [],
          "supported": ["2.3", "2.4"]}
    }

>   },

Reviewer: Given this information exists in the `io.buildpacks.lifecycle.*` labels I think we can pull it out of the builder metadata. The only reason the lifecycle version and the old form of the APIs:
```
  "lifecycle": {
    "version": "0.9.1",
    "api": {
      "buildpack": "0.2",
      "platform": "0.3"
      }
   },
   ...
```
are in the current label is for backwards compatibility. I don't think we should specifying the backwards compatible data, even if we continue to include in `pack create-builder` for some period of time.

	  "homepage": "http://geocities.com/cool-bp"
    }
  }
}
```

### Lifecycle APIs
The `io.buildpacks.lifecycle.apis` data should look like:
```json
{
  "buildpack": {
    "deprecated": ["<list of versions>"],
    "supported": ["<list of versions>"]
  },
  "platform": {
    "deprecated": ["<list of versions>"],
    "supported": ["<list of versions>"]
  }
}
```

## Spec Additions
### Extension Spec
Builders should be specified as an extension spec, and explicitly versioned, using a `<major>.<minor>` pattern, and following the [established spec api release pattern][spec-api-branches]. The version should be persisted in the `io.buildpacks.builder.metadata`, as a top-level `api` field. Versioning will start with 0.1.

### [Platform specification][platform-spec]
We should add a cross-reference to the extension builder specification, noting that a builder is a fully-functioning Stack build image.

### [Distribution specification][distribution-spec]
We should add a cross-reference to the extension builder specification, noting that a builder is also a valid artifact, and is specified in the extension spec.

# Drawbacks
[drawbacks]: #drawbacks

> N/A

Reviewer: For the benefits of the formal specification we trade off speed. For example, it will require more ceremony to make changes to builder metadata.

# Alternatives
[alternatives]: #alternatives
* It could be purely in the distribution spec &rarr; There was push-back to this idea, given that platforms don't need to use builders, but can just call the lifecycle directly.
* Versioning could be done through setting a custom OCI mediaType &rarr; That may make the images impossible to manipulate through the docker cli, which would be a big issue.

# Prior Art
[prior-art]: #prior-art
Some similar PRs that led to the development of specifications are:
* [Distribution Specification][distrib-spec-rfc]
* [Service Binding Specification][service-binding-rfc]

# Unresolved Questions
[unresolved-questions]: #unresolved-questions
* This RFC doesn't assume the requirement of a PATH variable, or any other open RFCs  

# Spec. Changes (OPTIONAL)
[spec-changes]: #spec-changes

> This RFC should lead to changes in the distribution spec.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This RFC should lead to a new extension spec.
```
